Well, hey, good morning, one church.
How's everybody doing today?
Yeah?
It is cold.
You're right.
Anybody in the, I hate cold crew today?
Yes, you are my people.
Woo, powerful name.
Yes, it is.
Man, I got to tell y'all, I love, love, love on the Sundays when I teach, chucking in on this corner over here and listening to y'all sing.
There is nothing like seeing your hands in the air, hearing your voices lifted to worship our King.
And so if nothing else, just know that when I don't get to lead, I get to worship here with you guys.
Not that I don't worship up here, but it's different.
So thank you so much for blessing me this morning as I had the privilege to see you worship today.
For those of you who are here for the first time, my name is Kim and I have the privilege of being a part of our worship team here and also leading the Monday night ladies.
Yes, yes, yes.
Oh, and ladies, before I forget to tell you, we're not meeting tomorrow night.
Staff retreat is this week.
I'll post it in our group meet.
But anyway, if you're not in the group meet.
get in it.
But yeah, so I'm super excited that you're here today.
Thank you so much for coming.
We know there are lots of places you could spend your time today.
And the fact that you're here with us just means so, so very much.
We're continuing on in our series today called One Word.
And what we're trying to do this year is find some focus, find some direction.
And so we've invited you all to find one word to help that process for this year.
And we're looking for words that inspire us or words that challenge us.
And this week, this past Monday, how many of you are on Connect1C?
Anybody in here?
Okay.
If your hand is not raised, it should be.
There is a tap tag on the back of the chair in front of you.
You can take out your phone, tap that tag and get connected with us, because what I'm about to share with you is really cool.
And I don't want you all missing out on this.
So every Monday morning at nine o'clock, we send out, how can we pray for you today?
And sometimes there's a question in there.
And this week, the question was, what is your one word?
And I want to share with you some of the one words that have come in so far.
They're powerful.
Get ready.
The first one is resilience.
Courage.
If this is your word and you're in here, like you can like, woo hoo, like give that one to those, okay?
Woo, there we go.
Nice.
Let's go back.
Resilience.
Okay.
Yeah, okay.
Courage.
Complete.
Transformed.
Today.
Discipline.
Surrender.
Closer, gratitude, healing.
Okay, confidence, intentional.
Yes, trust, humility, grace, faithfulness, still withstand and consistency.
Y'all, those words, wow.
There is a lot happening in those words.
And if you're here today and you haven't found your one word yet, then maybe those words will give you some encouragement and help you kind of narrow down where you want to go.
Last week as Chris shared his one word with us, anybody remember what it is?
Last, very good.
And as he was telling you about that, he happened to show you a bracelet.
Anybody remember that?
He happened to tell you that the bracelet cost $10.
If any of you went on the website and many of you did, we received phone texts, emails, people saying, that bracelet is not $10.
That's not $10.
But here's the thing.
He was hoping it would be less.
Right?
That's it.
He was hoping it would be less.
Now,
If you go on the website, and it's a pretty cool reminder to have your word on your wrist, they've got some cool fancy braided bracelets and different color tokens that you can get.
So if you go on there, like you've got options to upgrade or just keep it simple, but it is not.
So, here we go.
All right, I want to share my one word with you, but not quite yet.
We're going to get to that in just a few minutes.
I want to take a minute and think back to 2025.
Remember when we did the series, Selfies in the Battlefield.
Everybody remember that.
Whose life did we discuss in that series?
Joshua, that's right.
And so we talked about how Joshua was part of the group of Israelites that wandered in the desert for 40 years.
And during that time, Joshua was mentored and taught and poured into by anybody to remember.
Moses, let's say it together, Moses, there you go.
So Joshua has been mentored by Moses.
Now we're gonna go to Joshua chapter one, verses one and two.
And we're gonna pick up, remind ourselves what happened in Joshua's life.
It says, after the death of Moses, the Lord's servant, Moses, the Lord's servants, the Lord spoke to Joshua, son of none, Moses is assistant.
So we just got all that information right there.
Moses has died, the Lord speaks to Joshua who was the assistant to Moses.
Moses, my servant is dead, therefore the time has come for you to lead these people.
Who's the you he's speaking to?
Say it again.
There we go, good.
You're gonna lead these people, the Israelites, across the Jordan River into the land that I am giving you.
So God is calling Joshua to lead this stubborn, rebellious, dearly loved, crazy as all get-out group of Israelites.
But there are a few things that Joshua is gonna need in order to be able to do that.
Some things he needs to do and some things he needs to know.
So listen to what
God says to Joshua, he says, be strong and courageous for you are the one who will lead these people to possess all the land I swore to their ancestors, I would give them.
Be strong and very courageous.
Be careful to obey all the instructions Moses gave you.
Do not deviate from them turning either to the right or to the left, then you will be successful in all you do.
Now, I tried not to emphasize anything in there because we're gonna do an exercise today.
Now, I'm gonna read this passage two more times.
And as I do, I want you to close your eyes and really listen.
I want you to make a mental note of words and phrases that stand out to you.
Now, there will not be a test.
And I know some of you type A people in here are already like, oh, I gotta get out my notebook, I gotta write this down.
No, no, no, no, no.
I just want you to listen, okay?
We're not no competition going on in here.
Just be still, listen,
And notice, you ready?
Okay, close your eyes.
Be strong and courageous.
For you are the one who will lead these people to possess all the land I swore to their ancestors, I would give them.
Be strong and very courageous.
Be careful to obey all the instructions Moses gave you.
Do not deviate from them, turning either to the right or to the left.
Then,
You will be successful in all you do.
Stay right where you are.
Don't open your eyes.
Just stay.
Let me read it one more time.
Be strong and courageous.
For you are the one who will lead these people to possess the land.
I swore to their ancestors.
I would give them.
Be strong and very courageous.
Be careful to obey all the instructions Moses gave you.
Do not deviate from them turning either to the right or to the left.
Then you will be successful in everything you do.
Stay right where you are.
Keep your eyes closed.
You can open your eyes.
I'm going to ask a question and I want you to say your answer out loud.
Yes, we'll all be talking at once.
It's okay.
What word stood out to you?
Go.
What phrase stood out to you?
What action stood out to you?
Is there anything, now this is just to answer to yourself, is there anything that you can apply to your heart or to your mind or to your life today to bring about a change or do something new based on that verse?
I just want you to sit with that for a minute.
Okay?
Now, close your eyes and listen.
Study this book of instruction continually.
Meditate on it day and night so you will be sure to obey everything written in it.
Only then will you prosper and succeed in all you do.
Stay right where you are.
Listen again.
Study this book of instruction continually.
Meditate on it day and night so you will be sure to obey everything written in it.
Only then will you prosper and succeed in all you do.
Open your eyes.
Same question.
What word stood out to you?
What phrase stood out to you?
What action stood out to you?
Is there anything that you heard in this verse that you can apply to your heart, to your mind, and to your life to make a difference today?
My one word for 2026 is meditate.
Listen to this verse one more time and watch it on the screen this time.
Study this book of instruction continually.
Meditate on it day and night so you will be sure to obey everything written in it.
Only then will you prosper and succeed in all you do.
Study this book of instruction continually.
Meditate on it day and night.
In order for Joshua to be successful in what God called him to do, he had to immerse himself in God's word, and he had to faithfully put it into practice.
He had to grow in knowledge of God's word, he had to obey what he studied, he had to meditate on it, and then and only then would Joshua prosper and succeed.
In meditation, there is a process
There is a practice and there is a purpose to what God is calling us to do, to what God called Joshua to do.
And this ancient practice that we're reading about in scripture today is just as important in our lives today.
Our big idea today is when we meditate, we hear the word of God speak.
We hear the word of God speak.
Now, some of you in here may know that I'm a yoga teacher.
Some of you in here may think that is crazy.
Thank you, Justine.
I'm so glad you're here today.
Fellow yoga teacher back there, sister yoga teacher.
Anyway.
In the older world, when we think about meditation, some of us think about sitting in lotus pose.
I'm not going to show you that pose today.
But it's where your legs are kind of like that.
And maybe you think about eyes closed and your hands are an emudra.
Emudra is when you just choose a position with your fingers basically.
And you're like, oh, oh, no, I'm not making fun.
I'm just saying, is this what a lot of you think of?
A lot of people think meditation like you gotta get real still, you gotta close your eyes, maybe get some steam, some fog in the room like we have in here today.
Maybe there's chimes playing in the background.
And the process of meditation can range from
Oh my gosh, it ranges the gamut.
From finding your inner self, to gaining enlightenment, to greater awareness and awakening.
But these types of meditation are not what we're talking about today.
These meditations are very self-focused.
It's about emptying the self or finding the self.
And I want you to know today, as Chris says, I could use a whole lot less of myself.
and a whole lot more of Jesus.
Anybody else in the room today?
That's right.
And so our purpose today is to focus on what the Bible says about meditation and what it looks like for those of us who believe in God and have a relationship with Him.
Are we clear on that?
I don't want y'all going out of here today, say, all Kim's all, all that kind of, I don't want that.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
No.
Now, the word meditation appears 17 times in the Old Testament, but not specifically in the New Testament.
There are other words in the New Testament that refer to meditation or maybe like a synonym, but the word that we're gonna focus on today is only found in the Old Testament.
Now, I wanna give you some examples from the book of Psalms.
The word meditate is found most often in the book of Psalms, and you're gonna see several versions of it as we go through these verses.
The first one is,
Psalm 1914.
May the words of my mouth and the what say it with me.
meditation of my heart be pleasing to you, O Lord my rock and my redeemer."
So meditation.
All right, now let's go to the next one.
Psalm 63, 6.
I lie awake thinking of you, say it with me, meditating on you through the night.
So we had meditation and now we have meditating.
All right, let's go to the next one.
Psalm 1, 1948.
I honor and love your commands.
I say it with me.
Meditate on your decrees.
Last one, Psalm 145 verse five.
I will.
on your majestic, glorious splendor and your wonderful miracles.
Now, we've seen lots of different versions of the word meditate, meditating, meditation, meditate, and we've seen lots of different ways that it takes place.
I'm gonna think about your rules and your decrees.
I'm gonna think about you as I lie in my bed at night.
I'm gonna think about your glorious splendor and the miracles that you do.
And so when we meditate, we are taking in the full scope of God's character, of God's word, and of his deeds.
This is not about emptying ourselves, this is about being filled.
This is about taking the time to slow down.
It is the devotional practice of filling ourselves.
We stop, we get focused, and we engage with God and His Word to know Him better, to love Him more, to grow closer to Him, and to live for His glory.
I wanna say all that again.
We study Him and we get to know Him in His Word so that we know Him better, that we love Him more.
that we grow closer to Him and we live lives for His glory.
Now, that's a whole lot that happens from being hagah.
That's the word in the original language.
Say it with me, hagah.
One more time, y'all got this.
Hagah!
That's for you.
Anyway.
So Haggah is the original Hebrew word and it means to meditate, to speak, to moan, to utter, and to ponder.
That's a lot going on there.
Haggah is used to describe an intense and active engagement in God's word.
It implies deep and focused reflection.
Meditation is taking the time to deeply ponder and internalize God's word and his character.
Often involving repeating, and that's where that uttering and moaning in that definition, often repeating scripture to let it shape our heart and our action.
It's the spiritual discipline of remembering and rehearsing.
God's promises, his works, and his commands.
So as we come into meditation, it is not about necessarily deep Bible study or a specific word study.
It is time for us to sit and listen and be filled as we silence ourselves and listen for what God has to say to us through his word.
Now, here's a great example.
How many of you in here love music?
Doesn't mean you have to be good at it.
Just how many of you love music?
Like, are there any shower singers in here today?
Oh yeah.
Yeah, I know y'all.
Y'all get in there.
You're singing the journey out of that thing, right?
Chicago.
Oh, Whitney.
Whoo, right?
Yes.
Somebody been here.
You got that shower singing.
The acoustics are great in there, right?
You can just hold a note forever.
Ask Chris Edmondson.
Now, how many of you in here can keep a crazy beat on your steering wheel as you're going down the road, right?
Like, don't, don't, don't, don't, right?
Got it going on on the steering wheel.
Any guitar hero fans in here today?
Okay, okay.
Now, it's so funny because when I was working at a music store here in town, I would have so many parents call and say they wanted their children to take guitar lessons.
And I'm like, okay, well, does your child have any experience with guitar?
Oh, he is so good on guitar hero.
I mean, he doesn't miss a thing.
And I'm like, that's a little different.
But OK, right?
So some of you in here are guitar heroes, all right?
So no matter your choice of instrument, whether or not it's a real instrument, when it comes to music, we don't just hear it.
We know it, right?
We memorize the words.
I know for Sterling, man, let a cool guitar riff come on.
Well, right?
Some of y'all, you got your favorite song.
Like here it comes like a house of the rising sun.
There's a cool one in there, right?
It's a whole thing.
Music isn't just something that we listen to.
It's something that becomes a part of us.
We listen to it over and over and over again.
And every time it repeats, we pick up a little bit more.
Oh, here's that cool guitar part.
Oh my gosh, I never, this lyric is so good.
Or do you know the story of this song?
And it becomes a part of us.
And we spend so much time listening and memorizing that as soon as we hear the first few notes, we instantly recognize it and begin to sing along.
Sweet Caroline.
Good times.
Never felt so good.
See what I mean?
I want you to think of meditation like that.
Meditation is the practice of coming to God's word again and again and again.
And it's more than just reading the words, it's taking the time to truly listen to what they're saying, to understand the instructions that are given, to take in the truth of those words, to take the encouragement that they give.
Like memorizing our favorite song, meditation turns our hearts to the tune of what God wants to say directly to us and how he wants to fill our lives.
He invites us to dive into scripture so deeply to know him so that it becomes a part of us.
You know, meditation isn't about committing chapters and chapters to memory, the Bible to memory.
I mean, that might be the result at some point.
It is choosing a single verse or two and diving deeper into their meeting, just like we did earlier today.
I read the verse.
We sat with it for a moment.
I read it again.
We sat with it, and then we asked questions.
Is there a word that stood out to me?
Is there a phrase that caught my attention?
Is there an action that I'm called to do?
Is there something in this verse that can change the way that I live or the way that I think or the way that I love today?
Meditation is powerful.
It's thinking and processing, even writing it down and certainly saying the words over and over to ourselves so that we hear the word of God speak.
When we meditate, we hear the word of God speak.
Now I wanna tell you that throughout my years in ministry, I cannot begin to tell you how many times I have heard people say they don't get anything out of the Bible when they read it.
People say, I don't understand it.
I think it's boring.
It is outdated.
It's too harsh.
It's hard to believe.
I don't understand that language.
And the list goes on and on and on.
And maybe they've tried to read it once or twice, but man, they hit that first little phrase that doesn't make sense.
And they're like, I'm out.
Let's go.
But let those saying people, and we are those people, by the way, let those saying people get in their car and turn on the radio.
You're the meaning in my life.
You're the inspiration, right?
You know it.
But if I were to ask you about a verse in Proverbs or something else, would it come to you that quickly?
Shouldn't it be that way when it comes to knowing God's word?
Why are we so willing and able to learn a song that catches our attention?
But we are so unwilling to do the same with God's word that was written specifically for us.
We're so willing to fill ourselves with other things.
But when it comes to God's instructions, we just kind of stand back.
Some of you can quote movie lines all day long.
Some of you have got song lyrics from years in your head, because you're so old.
Some of you have sports stats, y'all.
I've heard you like, oh, this year, and he did this, and we did them.
I mean, I'm just like, whoa, what is that?
But for many of us, when it comes to God's Word and the Bible, we never make it past John 3.16.
We're like, as long as I've got that one in my back pocket, I'm okay.
But I want you to see what it says in Psalm chapter one, verses two and three.
Look what it says about those who believe in God, but they delight, say it with me, but they, in the law of the Lord, meditating on it day and night.
They are like trees planted along the riverbank, bearing fruit in season.
Their leaves never wither and they prosper in all they do.
That word wasn't just for Joshua.
That word about succeeding and prospering wasn't just for him a long time ago.
This is speaking to us and who we are today.
You want roots that go down deep, get your face in the word.
You want a life that's gonna prosper.
You want a life that's gonna be obedient.
You know God's truth.
You want a tree that's fruitful, that leaves don't wither or fade, then you plant your feet firmly in God's Word.
And you have it course through your veins.
That's how we know.
If you're gonna clap, just clap, come on, let's do it.
It is the Word of God we're talking about here.
The benefits of delighting and meditating result in the life of fruitfulness.
Y'all want some good fruit?
I don't want to be a wilted up nasty looking old tree with shriveled up prunes on it.
I'm old, but I'm not that old.
So I do yoga.
There is beautiful fruit in our lives.
when we take in God's word, when we let him speak to us.
There's a beautiful example of this in the New Testament.
In Luke chapter 10, two sisters, Mary and Martha, you remember them?
And they had a brother named Lazarus, there you go.
So Jesus comes to visit them.
And Martha, the oldest sister who is technically the owner of the house, by the way.
She's busy, y'all, she's making a meal, she's in it.
And she notices that Mary, her younger sister, has gone into the room to sit down.
And Jesus is in there teaching.
So Mary just kind of makes her way over.
And she's sitting down.
And Martha's over here like, whoo, apron on, going for it.
And look what she says in Luke 10, chapter 40.
But Martha was distracted by the big dinner she was preparing.
She came to Jesus and said, Lord, doesn't it seem unfair to you that my sister just sits here while I do all the work?
Tell her to come and help me.
And Jesus looks at her and says, Martha, Martha, you can hear the tenderness in his voice.
He says, you are worried and upset and distracted by many things.
Only one thing.
It's needed.
I've got to admit to you today, I'm a Martha.
Many of you here today, probably a Martha.
Truth is most of us are Martha.
And Martha was living from what she did, rather than who she was.
And it was exhausting her.
Anybody in here today exhausted?
Perhaps you know what that feels like.
We define ourselves by our productivity, our usefulness, our ability to get things done.
We measure our worth by our output and we feel guilty when we rest because we're not accomplishing anything.
But Jesus invites us into a radically different way of being.
Where was Mary?
She was sitting at the feet of Jesus.
Not because she was lazy and not because she was irresponsible because she understood the fundamental rule that who you are matters more than what you do.
And where are you going to find out who you are?
You're gonna find out in God's word and you're gonna find it sitting at the feet of Jesus.
When we come to Jesus Christ becomes the foundation from which all of our meaningful actions flow.
When we choose a compartmentalized life, we think we have to choose one or the other.
Either you're the spiritual one who prays, or you're the practical one who's getting things done.
Either you prioritize intimacy with God, or you're out prioritizing action in the world.
How many of us do the same thing?
We read our Bibles, we check the box, we serve at church, so that we feel valuable.
We're doing all the right things, but we're doing them from the wrong place.
And so the idea of sitting in meditation just feels like one more thing that we have to put on our to-do list.
But Jesus invites us to a centered life where everything flows from sitting at his feet and listening to his words and receiving his love.
I'm asking you today, bring your whole self to him.
Not the part of you that wants to perform.
and not the part of you that just wants more knowledge of the Bible.
No, no, no, no, no.
Bring your whole self to him.
All the questions, all the hurt, all the longing, all the misunderstanding.
And as you sit at the speed of Jesus, as you read that verse over and over, as you say it again and again to yourself, study this book of instruction continually, meditate on it day and night.
Then you will be successful and prosper in all you do.
when you say it over and over and over again.
Not only do you receive from the feet of Jesus there, but as you stand up to walk into the rest of your day, into the rest of your relationships, into the rest of your task, into the rest of your life, you are aligned with Jesus.
His invitation is always the same.
Make yourself available.
Sit, listen, meditate,
receive, and from that center place, everything else will flow.
And so I want you to try it this week.
I even have a verse for you.
It's going to be on the screen.
You can take a picture of it if you want, or if you're using your phone for the Bible app, it'll be there.
The verse I want you to sit with this week is Proverbs three, five, and six.
Trust in the Lord with all your heart.
Do not depend on your own understanding.
Seek his will in all you do.
Excuse me.
And he will show you which path to take.
Read it.
Stop.
Is there a word that comes to mind?
Is there a phrase that comes to mind?
Is there an action I should do?
How will this change me today?
Stop.
Read it.
Trust in the Lord with all your heart.
Lay not on your own understanding, in all your ways, acknowledge Him, and He will show you which path to take.
Is there a word that stands out?
Is there a phrase that speaks to me?
Is there an action I need to do?
How is this verse going to change my heart and my life today?
The Bible is God's love letter and instruction manual and guide for our lives.
When we meditate, we hear the Word of God speak.